in the last video we finished up the
parsing of the XML feed and created a
list of feed entry objects with the data
we want in the correct fields now we
need to present that information in a
useful way on the device screen now
obviously it wouldn't be very efficient
to create a textview for each record to
display the information because we'd
have to add more text view widgets to
the layout if we wanted to display the
results of the top 25 feet for example
so what we need is some form of widget
that can accommodate as many records as
necessary without us having to worry
about how many there are now such a
widget would need some sort of data
source that it could get its records
from and if it's going to be able to
display any kind of data then the data
source must appear in a standard form
regardless of the data that it contains
now fortunately both the widget and a
standard way of presenting data have
been created for us and included in the
android framework and we're going to do
here you can see i'm getting these
errors i updated to the latest emulator
today and I've been getting errors for
that for some reason so I'm going to
just close the emulator down because we
don't need it right now I'm assuming
it's some sort of bug with this latest
release by Android so I'm just going to
close it down to avoid those issues for
now all right so as I mentioned both the
widget and a standard way of presenting
data have been created for us and
included in the android framework now
the widget is called a ListView and its
job is to display views in a list now
we're going to worry about where those
views come from in a minute what we're
interested in is that the ListView will
display as many views as will fit on the
screen as the screen scrolled it adds
more views to the bottom or top if
you're scrolling down so that the
screens always fall now these views can
contain more than one widget so you
could have a textview and an image view
widget to display the photo in a
description for example now I'm throwing
the word view around a lot here so I'd
better clarify what exactly a view is in
Android so I'm going to just open up a
browser because whenever I want to know
what something means in the world of
Android my first port of call is
Google's documentation
so let's see what google have to say
about views so the reference
documentation is here we're going to
paste the link in and this page is very
informative and you can see that the
first paragraph defines the viewers of
you can occupies a rectangular area on
the screen and it's responsible for
drawing and event handling
now that's possibly the least
informative sentence on the paragraph
the rest is actually quite useful so
this class represents the basic building
block for user interface components so
think about that carefully because of
the implication is that everything we
see on the screen is of you now that's
not strictly true because of you has a
canvas on which you can draw lines and
other objects but for the layouts we're
dealing with everything is a view and
that includes our layouts
they are also views now as the
documentation States layouts are based
on the view group class which is a
subset of view so if a view group is of
you and the layout is a view group then
a layout is also of you now if we give
our layouts an ID then we can use find
view ID to get a reference to them we
can hide them just like any other view
we can also respond to taps on them just
like we've done with buttons and if we
can respond to taps on a button which is
a view then we can also respond to taps
on the layout because that's also of you
now the reason that I've mentioned all
this here is I'm going to be talking
about views but it's important to bear
in mind that if you can contain other
views now when we talk about a ListView
displaying views remember that those
views don't have to just be simple
widgets such as a text view the views
that the ListView displays can be quite
complex layouts in fact they often are
our first one won't be it'll just be a
text view but we're going to expand on
that in a later video so remember that
as we discuss the ListView in the river
also that views can be complex layouts
containing other views and even other
layouts alright so moving on with
Android lollipop Google released the
recycler view widget which
intended as a more efficient replacement
for the listview when displaying large
datasets now that doesn't mean that the
ListView is now redundant though and
very often it doesn't make sense to
struggle with the additional complexity
of the recyclerview
alright so as you can see on the screen
there we've got a picture here of the
ListView recycling views on a concept of
olicity recycling views also the name
recycler view that implies that the
newer widget recycles views so that the
system doesn't have to create thousands
of views to display thousands of records
now that's true but therefore gives the
impression that the list tree doesn't
reuse its values and that's not true and
the ListView will reuse views that
scroll off the screen now creating views
is very expensive in terms of computer
time and they also consume a fair bit of
memory each view will need at least
about 1k of RAM so you can see that
creating thousands of them will rapidly
eat up the device's memory now when the
list scrolled views that are moved off
the screen can be reused for the new
data that that will be displayed as the
ListView Scrolls so in this slide the
ListView is scrolled up and when the
view holding item one moves off the top
of the screen its reused to display the
data for item nine at the bottom of the
screen now the ListView keeps all the
views that scroll off the screen and
reuses them whenever it needs a new view
you know I said them there because a new
view coming at the bottom may have a
greater height than the views at the top
of the screen so it could display
several views at once now there's a lot
of optimization going on inside the
ListView widget and it is an efficient
way to display lots of information so
that's the widget that we're going to be
using to display a list of records but -
what about the mechanism for getting the
records into the list so to make the
ListView work we have to put an adapter
between the data and the ListView now
whenever the ListView needs to display
more data it asks the adapter for a view
that it can display now the adapter
takes care of putting the values of the
data into the correct widgets in the
view and then returns the view to the
ListView for displaying
now the reason for the arrow going back
from the ListView to the adapter is that
the ListView will provide the adapter
with a view if it has one that's gone
off the screen which is how the system
reuses views rather than creating a new
one each time now obviously a new views
will be created until the screen is full
but after that they'll be reused
wherever possible
now if the adapter receives a view from
the ListView it'll actually replace any
data in it with the data for the current
record then send it back to the ListView
so that it can be displayed now the data
source could be a cursor from a database
for example or an ArrayList which is
what we've passed our data into so
that's pretty handy so we're going to
create our own adapter later but for now
we can use the basic array adapter
that's part of the android framework now
an array adapter is very basic and can
only put data into a single text view
widget you also have very little control
over how the data is presented the array
adapter just uses the objects to string
method and puts the returned string into
the textview so you can probably see why
we created our own two string method in
the application class now all right and
the Google documentation for the array
adapter I'm just going to load that up
on the screen and you can see it on the
page there now a handy a page to
reference to find out more about the
array adapter all right so let's go back
to Android studio and start looking at
the layouts we need to see the list of
you working now we're going to start by
modifying the activity underscore main
layout and you can see that I've got
that opened and on-screen so we need to
delete the textview that Android studio
added for us and replace it with the
ListView widget so let's first delete
the textview default one by selecting it
and clicking or pressing the del button
and as I mentioned we want to replace it
with a ListView widget and that's in the
section over here and a palette under
all well actually I can get at point
find it down here under containers Azzam
usually the quickest way of getting
access to it and you can see the
ListView there so what I'm going to do
is just drag that over and release and
then what I'm going to do is constrain
each edge
to the corresponding edge of the layout
and then change both the width and the
height to match constraint so let's go
ahead and do that so I'm just adding
constraints to all four corners of the
layout and as I mentioned we're going to
change the layout width to match
constraint and same for the layout
height and we want a lot of space here
because the ListView is almost filling
the layout now we don't want it centered
vertically on the screen though what it
should do is start at the top so I'm
gonna drag the slider right up to the
top this one up here finally what I'm
going to do is I'm going to change the
ID to XML ListView and that's because we
need an ID because we're going to have
to refer to this ListView in our code so
XML ListView
notice on the design that it's appearing
as a list of items with a vertical
scrollbar just to see it expect a
ListView to appear when we hook it up to
an adapter we'll get real information
showing but in the layout designer it
just uses item 1 item 2 etc just to
represent what it does so let's actually
all we need to do with this layout the
ListView is going to fill the screen and
we'll take care of all the display for
us and I'm going to reformat the XML to
keep it tidy so let's go ahead and do
that but generally we're finally now
that and was doing a good job with that
Android studio a reformat code you can
see that was Papa formatted and we're
actually done we can close activity may
nil so the next layout we need to create
isn't really a layout it's just going to
be textview stored in an XML layout file
so I'm going to open the project pane
and I'm going to open the res folder and
I open the layout folder and what I'm
going to do is right-click the layout
folder and choose new layout resource
file now the folder will be used to
follow the layout resources in our code
I'm going to call this one a list and
let's go write them and that's because
it'll be used to display each item in
the list now there's no need to provide
the excel extension because the Android
studio
do it for us if we leave it off now when
you create layouts the root element is
usually a layout of some sort such as a
constraint layout like we've been using
now we don't actually want to lay out
here we just want to textview so I'm
going to come over to the root element
and just type in text view so I can
select it and you saw a list of matching
elements as I was typing you can I could
literally just type te and then select
it from the list
alright so androids quite happy for us
to use a simple widget in place of the
layouts and that fits in with what we
saw earlier that everything's a view
alright so there's nothing else to
change so you can click on OK and we're
going to close the project pane for now
then to give it more space now we're
done here there's nothing else that
needs adding or changing for this view
to work with the adapter it doesn't even
need an ID because the adapter will be
inflating it from the XML whenever it
needs to create a new one we may want to
use it in our own adapter though so for
that reason I'm going to give it an ID
so I'm just going to click on making
sure the geek and the component tree the
textview is selected and under ID I'm
going to type in app text view press
enter there just to save it and at the
moment its width and height are both set
to match parent so that it'll actually
feel whatever space the ListView
displays it in and that's fine but what
I will do is change the text size to 18
SP and then gonna go back to the text
tab and just to a code reformat which
was okay come back to the display tab
and you can see in there now that that
this layout really is just a text to you
there's nothing in here except our text
view at the top alright so we can go
back to the design and what I can now do
is close this list underscore item and
we can start writing the code to create
an adapter then set our ListView to use
it so that the changes to the code are
very simple and we'll see those in the
next video